#summary documentation for 'sms'
#labels documentation

= SMS =

{{{sms [ cmd ] [ @recips | index [ :last ] ] [ text ] }}}

  * Main commands: help list read write config 
  * Recipients: prepend @ to aliases. phonenumbers should be +0-9, >3digits

*Examples:*

{{{
>sms @robert howyadoinbro # sends an sms to `ppl robert`
>sms read # opens an interactive reader
>sms delete 1:5; sms purge # marks messages deleted and deletes them
}}}

*Config:*

  * TH_SMS_USESTDIN: 
  use stdin as text input for sms messages. type a double newline (or EOF, control-D) signals the end of the message. If not set, $EDITOR will be used to write sms texts
  * TH_SMS_STORESENT
  store the sent sms on the sim (not opimd)
  * TH_SMS_SIM and TH_SMS_OPIMD 
  set wether to check the sim or pim for messages, or both. if you set both, you may have duplicate messages (and updating is twice as slow)

==subcommands==

===sms answer===	
{{{sms answer [index] [text]}}}
	send sms to sender of sms $index
	if text is omitted, opens text editor.
===sms config===
{{{sms config }}}
	open $EDITOR with ~/.thone/sms.rc
	restart Thone to have changes take effect
	
===sms delete===
{{{sms delete [index[:last]]}}}
	deletes sms $index to $last from cache.
	use 'sms purge' to commit to dbus

===sms edit===
{{{sms edit }}}
	edits or creates the draft text.

===sms help===	
{{{sms help}}}
	some help
	
===sms list===
{{{sms list [index[:last]]}}}
	displays short form of sms $index to $last

===sms list-raw===
{{{sms list-raw [index[:last]]}}}
	displays short form of sms $index to $last
	
===sms print===
{{{sms print [index]}}}
	displays long form of sms $index
	
===sms print-short===
{{{sms print-short [index]}}}
	displays long form of sms $index

===sms print-source===
{{{sms print-source [index]}}}
	displays source of sms $index
	
===sms purge===
{{{sms purge}}}
	delete messages mark as deleted from dbus
	
===sms read===
{{{sms ui|read [index]}}}
	enters interactive mode with sms $index
	
===sms send===
{{{sms send [@recips]}}}
	send input from stdin to @recips.

===sms update===	
{{{sms update}}}
	sync the local sms history with dbus storage
	
===sms write===
{{{sms [write] [@recips] [text]}}}
	default action. writes and sends sms.
	if text is omitted, opens text editor.
	prompts for @recips when omitted. 

===sms -ac ===
{{{sms -ac [arguments]}}}
	performs autocomplete on last argument